



# PIA id

| Name      | Value                                                               |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Status    | ~Draft                                                              |
| Milestone | %0.1.0                                                              |
| Owner     | @root                                                               |
| Name      | Persons in household                                                |
| ID        | 1                                                                   |
| Issue     | [#1](https://github.com/iBrotNano/python_workshop_project/issues/1) |

[[_TOC_]]

## What kind of personal data is processed?

Users enter their personal data used to calculate their needed calories and nutritional data with the Mifflin-St Jeor Formula to create a meal plan:

The following personal data is processed:

- Activity level (1-5)
- Birth year
- Gender
- Height
- Weight

Additionally users can enter a name for the person. This is only an alias and must not be the real name.

## Description of the processing

### Nature of data

User enter the data by them selves through a CLI. It is used to calculate the needed calories and nutritional data with the Mifflin-St Jeor Formula to create a meal plan. The data is stored in a local YML file and deleted when the user deletes the person from the app.

The data is stored locally on the users system and not shared with anyone. It is not send to any other system or service.

The data is personal and sensitive as it includes health related data.

### Scope of data

The data is personal and sensitive as it includes health related data. The amount of data collected depends on the number of people the user creates in the app. The data is collected whenever a user creates a new person in the app and deleted when the user deletes the person from the app. The geographical area is not limited as it is a local app and can be used by anyone.

### Context of the processing

Individuals enter and store their own data and data about persons in their household. They have full control over the data and can delete it at any time. They would expect to use their data in this way as it is necessary for the app to function and provide the intended benefits. The app migh include children or other vulnerable groups as part of a household. The app is not intended to be used by children but perents might add them to the calculation. There are no prior concerns over this type of processing or security flaws as the data is stored locally on the users system and not shared with anyone. The processing is not novel as it is a common practice to use personal data to provide personalized services and recommendations. The data is stored plain and encryption is only done by the OS if configured. There are no current issues of public concern that I should factor in as the app is intended for personal use and does not involve any controversial topics or practices. I am not signed up to any approved code of conduct or certification scheme.

### Purposes of the processing

I want to archive data needed for the app to function and provide the intended benefits. The intended effect on individuals is to provide personalized meal plans and nutritional information based on their personal data. The benefits of the processing are that it allows users to create personalized meal plans and get nutritional information that can help them make informed decisions about their diet and health.

## Consultation process

1. Describe when and how you will seek individuals, views, or justify why it's not appropriate to do so. 
2. Who else do you need to involve within your organisation? 
3. Do you need to ask your processors to assist? 
4. Do you plan to consult information security experts, or any other experts?

I don't plan to consult individuals as the app is intended for personal use and does not involve any controversial topics or practices.

## Assess necessity and proportionality

The lawful basis for processing is that it is necessary to offer a freely usable app. The processing achieves the purpose of providing personalized meal plans and nutritional information based on the user's personal data. There is no other way to achieve the same outcome as the app relies on the personal data to provide personalized services and recommendations. To prevent function creep, I will only use the data for the intended purposes and not use it for any other purposes without the user's consent. To ensure data quality and data minimisation, I will only collect and store the data that is necessary for the app to function and provide the intended benefits. I will provide users with clear and concise information about how their data is used and how they can exercise their rights. Users have the full control over their data right through the app. There are no processors other than the app itself. As the data is stored locally on the user's system and not shared with anyone, there are no international transfers to safeguard.

## Identify and assess risks

| #   | Describe source of risk and nature of potential impact on individuals.                | Likelihood of harm           | Severity of harm                | Overall  risk       |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------- |
|     |                                                                                       | Remote, possible or probable | Minimal, significant  or severe | Low, medium or high |
| 1   | An attacker could steal personal data if the attacker has access to the users system. | possible                     | minimal                         | low                 |

## Identify measures to reduce risk

| Risk | Options to reduce or eliminate risk                                             | Effect on risk                | Residual risk     | Measure approved | Issue for measure |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
|      |                                                                                 | Eliminated  reduced  accepted | Low  medium  high | Yes/no           |                   |
| 1    | Encrypt the data locally with a secure key pair stored in the Windows keychain. | reduced                       | low               | yes              | #29               |
| 1    | Login via password and username into the app to access the data.                | reduced                       | low               | yes              | #29               |

